---
title: Popular films are nearly 50% longer today than in the 1930s
tags: The Economists
---

Want to know what is coming soon to a cinema near you? Probably not an hour-and-a-half-long movie, like the old days. This year audiences have endured the longest instalments yet in the [“Indiana Jones<sup>夺宝奇兵：命运转盘</sup>”](https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/06/29/the-secrets-of-indiana-jones), “John Wick” and “Mission: Impossible<sup>碟中谍</sup> ” franchises<sup>/ˈfræntʃaɪz/[countable] a set of films in which the same characters appear in related stories<sup><sup>Disney has successfully revived the ‘Star Wars’ franchise, with four films already released and more in the works.迪士尼已经成功恢复了《星球大战》的专营权，已经发行了四部电影，并且还有更多作品正在制作中</sup> .

[“Oppenheimer”](https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/07/14/realism-with-oppenheimer-or-escapism-with-barbie), Christopher Nolan’s three-hour blockbuster<sup>/ˈblɒkbʌstə(r)/</sup><sup><sup>(informal)something very successful, especially a very successful book or film一鸣惊人的事物；（尤指）非常成功的书（或电影）</sup></sup>, required 11 miles (18km) of film stock for IMAX showings.

On October 20th comes “Killers of the Flower Moon<sup>花月杀手</sup>” , a grisly<sup>/ˈɡrɪzli/<sup>extremely unpleasant and frightening and usually connected with death and violence令人厌恶的；恐怖的；可怕的</sup></sup> western from the director Martin Scorsese. At nearly three and a half hours, its length is nearly double the average film last year. Even film buffs<sup>/bʌf/<sup>[countable] (used in compounds用于构成复合词) a person who is very interested in a particular subject or activity and knows a lot about it爱好者；行家里手<sup><sup>a film/movie/history buff电影/电影/历史爱好者</sup></sup></sup> struggle<sup>/ˈstrʌɡl/<sup></sup>to try very hard to do something when it is difficult or when there are a lot of problems奋斗；努力；争取</sup> to concentrate for that long. During the premiere at the [Cannes Film Festival](https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/30/anatomy-of-a-fall-a-riveting-whodunnit-wins-at-cannes) in May, some viewers dozed off. Afterwards there was a mad dash (and long queue) for the toilets. When did watching a film become such a slog<sup>/slɒɡ/a period of hard work or effort一段时间的艰苦工作（或努力）</sup>?

*The Economist* analysed over 100,000 feature films released internationally since the 1930s, the start of Hollywood’s golden age, using data from IMDb, a movie database. The average length of productions has crept<sup>/krept/</sup> up by around 24%, from one hour and 21 minutes in the 1930s to one hour and 47 minutes in 2022 (see chart). Blockbusters are the worst offenders. For the ten most-popular titles (measured by how many reviewers rated the films on IMDb) average lengths stretched to around two and a half hours in 2022, nearly 50% higher than in the 1930s.
>**creep<sup>/kriːp/</sup>**
> **[intransitive] (+ adv./prep.) (of people or animals人或动物) to move slowly, quietly and carefully, because you do not want to be seen or heard悄悄地缓慢行进；蹑手蹑脚地移动**
> I crept up the stairs, trying not to wake my parents.为了尽量不吵醒父母，我蹑手蹑脚地上了楼
> **[intransitive] (+ adv./prep.) (North American English) to move with your body close to the ground; to move slowly on your hands and knees匍匐行进；爬行**
>**synonym crawl**
>**creep up** 
>to gradually increase in amount, price, etc.（数量、价格等）逐渐增长

Film-makers began churning<sup>verb./tʃɜːn/[intransitive, transitive] if water, mud, etc. churns, or if something churns it (up), it moves or is moved around violently剧烈搅动；（使）猛烈翻腾</sup> out protracted<sup>/prəˈtræktɪd/延长的，拖延的</sup> pictures in the early 1960s. Cinema was booming and auteurs<sup>/əʊˈtɜː(r)/主创导演</sup> wanted to distinguish their art from television. Epics graced the silver screen, including [“Lawrence of Arabia”](https://www.economist.com/books-and-arts/2011/04/28/prince-of-his-disorder) (1962), which surpassed the three-and-a-half hour mark, and [“Cleopatra”](https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/10/a-new-docu-drama-about-cleopatra-has-riled-officials-in-cairo) (1963), which originally exceeded four hours but was later cut down. Back then, cinéastes<sup>/ˈsɪniæst/电影爱好者；影迷</sup> enjoyed an intermission<sup>/ˌɪntəˈmɪʃn/m幕间休息</sup> while the projectionist <sup>/prəˈdʒekʃənɪst/电影放映员</sup>prepared the reels for the next act. Runtimes of popular films ebbed<sup>/ebd/退，衰</sup> and flowed<sup>/fləʊd/涌动流动</sup> over subsequent<sup>happening or coming after something else随后的；后来的；之后的；接后的</sup> decades (and stretched long in some countries, such as India, known for its Bollywood sagas). But they have ballooned since 2018.
>**churn out粗制滥造出**
>churn out sth • churn sth out to quickly produce large quantities of something, especially without caring about quality:
In recent years, large corporations have built overseas factories to churn out clothing and toys.
She used to churn out at least one novel each year.

Franchises<sup>【电影、电视】(有关有线电视经营方面的)营业权</sup> are one driver of this trend. Studios want to squeeze the most out of their costly intellectual property, but they are competing with streaming platforms for eyeballs. The hope is that a spectacular, drawn-out<sup>/ˌdrɔːn ˈaʊt/lasting a very long time, often too long 持续很久的；拖长的<sup>synonym protracted</sup></sup> “event” movie will tempt audiences away from the small screen and into cinemas. This approach has often paid off<sup><sup>pay off(informal) (of a plan or an action, especially one that involves risk尤指冒险的计划或行动) to be successful and bring good results成功；奏效；达到目的</sup></sup>: [“Avengers: Endgame”](https://www.economist.com/search?q=avengers+endgame) (2019), Marvel’s three-hour superhero extravaganza, is the second-highest-grossing film in history. In 2022 lengthy franchises made up many of the most successful films in America<sub>在2022年，长篇系列电影构成了美国最成功的电影之一</sub>.

Anything that lures<sup>/lʊəz/</sup> people off their couches to see a film in theatres is good news for cinemas. But protracted runtimes also pose a “fundamental problem”, complains Clare Binns, managing director of Picturehouse, a British cinema group and film distributor. Long movies can mean forgoing two showings per night, which hurts ticket sales and profits<sub>长时间的电影可能意味着每晚要放映两场的放映次数减少，这会影响票房销售和利润</sub>.

Another explanation for longer films has to do with directors’ growing clout<sup>/klaʊt/[uncountable] power and influence影响力；势力</sup>. Who would dare tell the likes of Mr Nolan to trim his masterpieces?<sub>谁敢告诉诺兰先生去删减他的杰作呢</sub> Streamers, which do not have to worry as much about concision<sup>简明的；简练的；简洁的</sup> because viewers can pause whenever they would like, may lure big names with deep pockets and promises of creative freedom<sub>可能会吸引资金雄厚的大咖，并承诺创作自由</sub>. “Killers of the Flower Moon” will debut<sup>/ˈdeɪbjuː/初次亮相</sup> on AppleTV+ after its theatrical<sup>/θiˈætrɪkl/剧场的</sup> run. Netflix funded and released Mr Scorsese’s equally long [“The Irishman”](https://www.economist.com/prospero/2019/10/31/the-irishman-is-an-engrossing-and-gloriously-funny-gangster-epic) in 2019, a film that would have benefited from a decisive editor, Irish or otherwise. ■
>**Scorsese**
_Martin. born 1942, US film director, whose films include Taxi Driver (1976), Raging Bull (1980), the controversial The Last Temptation of Christ (1988), Goodfellas (1990), Casino (1995), and The Departed (2006), for which he won an Academy Award for Best Director_

&nbsp;

